So what are some of the ways we can use Kinesis Data
Analytics to analyze our data?
If we're streaming product sales data, for example,
we might use a built‑in Kinesis data Analytics
function to find the top selling item.
We could also use the built‑in machine learning capabilities
of Kinesis Data Analytics to provide machine learning
functions like anomaly detection.
And another example might be to leverage the S3 reference
data I mentioned earlier to enrich data in our stream and
perform more complex analysis.
What about data that we want to transform?
Most data engineering processes require some alteration of data.
So how can we leverage Kinesis Data Analytics to help with us?
Well, to start,
you can use Kinesis Data Analytics to transform between common data formats.
There are well‑documented examples of how to transform between
formats like Apache logs and JSON or CSV formats. For more complex
data analytics and transformation needs, you can use custom regexs to
determine how to process your data.
This can allow you to process unique data formats or to
extract relevant data from larger string fields.
Similarly,
you can perform string splitting and manipulation operations to
help you parse through common file formats like pipe‑separated
values or comma‑separated values.
These are just a subset of the transformation possibilities
that Kinesis Data Analytics makes available.
In addition to transformations,
we can also review existing stream data and then do
aggregations on top of that data.
One of the most common ways to do this would be to leverage common
SQL‑style aggregations, like SUMs and COUNTs, where you may wish to do
a GROUP BY by some particular dimension.
However,
there are more advanced streaming data aggregations that really allow
the benefits of Kinesis Data Analytics to shine.
One of these is the tumbling window aggregations. These allow you to
review all the data that comes in in a particular period,
for example,
all the data that comes in every 60 seconds, and then to
aggregate metrics over that period.
These aggregations occur in near real time against the incoming data streams,
allowing you to get the most recent metrics possible. Now,
while tumbling window aggregations collect data that occurs in a period
and provides metrics in subsequent adjacent periods,
you might want an aggregation of the most recent 60
seconds of data at all times.
In those cases, you can use sliding window aggregations.
Essentially,
these sliding windows take the streaming data and recompute the
aggregations as new data enters and exits the period in question.
So now that we've covered input sources and the various ways data
can be manipulated by Kinesis Data Analytics,
let's take a quick look at what happens to the data after we've acted on it.
First off,
the Kinesis Data Analytics service has its own interactive
console for dealing with stream data.
This allows you to immediately see the results of any stream manipulations or
transformations that you're making on an incoming data stream.
This technically isn't an output,
but it is a place for you to see your data after transformations.
The first real output source is Kinesis Data Streams.
When Kinesis Data Analytics processes a stream,
it can pump data directly to a new output Kinesis Data Stream. Outputting
to a Kinesis Data Stream allows for a lot of flexibility to have that
processed data be picked up by another application, processed again by
another Data Analytics Stream, or a myriad of other options with custom
applications. Kinesis Data Analytics can also output to a Kinesis Data
Firehose delivery stream.
This option is a great choice when you'd like to send your data along
to be stored in S3, ingested into Elasticsearch, or sent into any of
the other integrations that Firehose offers.
Kinesis Data Analytics can also be processed by AWS Lambda functions,
which can perform additional operations on the data that aren't bound by
the same limitations of other output destinations.
In any of these scenarios,
there are opportunities to send data from Kinesis Data Streams to
various AWS services or external providers. S3, Redshift, Splunk, and
Elasticsearch are common options for next steps.
However,
you can do a lot of customizations and send them to many
other services outside of this subset.
So now that we know a bit about the sources Kinesis Data Analytics has, what
it can do in terms of transformations, and where it can output to, let's take a look at Kinesis Data Analytics in action.